Documenting the `json_extract` SQL function (#15)
questdb/documentation: reference/function/json.md

---
title: JSON functions
sidebar_label: JSON
description: JSON functions reference documentation.
---

> This page describes functions specific to handling JSON data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes functions to handle JSON data.
```

Author: Done. Thanks!

## json_extract

Extract fields from a JSON document stored in VARCHAR columns.

`json_extract(doc, json_path)::datatype`

Note that if an extraction datatype isn't specified immediately, the field

> is extracted as a VARCHAR.

Reviewer: Worth defining compatible types?

Author: Done. Thanks!

### Usage

This is an example query that extracts fields from a `trade_details` column
containing JSON documents:

> ```questdb-sql title="Example"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```questdb-sql title="json_extract example"
```

Author: Done. Thanks!

SELECT
    json_extract(trade_details, '$.quantity')::long quantity,
    json_extract(trade_details, '$.price')::double price,
    json_extract(trade_details, '$.executions[0].timestamp')::timestamp first_ex_ts
FROM
    trades
WHERE
    json_extract(trade_details, '$.exchange') == 'NASDAQ'
```

The query above:
   * Filters rows, keeping only trades made on NASDAQ.
   * Obtains the price and quantity fields.
   * Extracts the timestamp of the first execution for the trade.

> For reference, here is a sample JSON document for the query above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For reference, a sample JSON document for the above query:
```

Author: Done. Thanks!

```json
{
  "trade_id": "123456",
  "instrument_id": "AAPL",
  "trade_type": "buy",
  "quantity": 1000,
  "price": 145.09,
  "vwap": {
    "start_timestamp": "2023-07-12T09:30:00Z",
    "end_timestamp": "2023-07-12T16:00:00Z",
    "executed_volume": 1000,
    "executed_value": 145000
  },
  "execution_time": "2023-07-12T15:59:59Z",
  "exchange": "NASDAQ",
  "strategy": "VWAP",
  "executions": [
    {
      "timestamp": "2023-07-12T10:00:00Z",
      "price": 144.50,
      "quantity": 200
    },
    {
      "timestamp": "2023-07-12T15:15:00Z",
      "price": 145.50,
      "quantity": 250
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### JSON Path Syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JSON path syntax
```

Author: Done. Thanks!

We support a limited JSON Path syntax.

> * `$` denotes the root of the document. Its use is optional and provided for
>   compatibility with the JSON path standard and other databases: All search
>   operations always start from the root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `$` denotes the root of the document. Its use is optional and provided for
  compatibility with the JSON path standard and other databases. Note that all search
  operations always start from the root.
```

Author: Done. Thanks!

* `.field` accesses a JSON object key.
* `[n]` accesses a JSON array index (where `n` is a number).

> The path cannot be constructed dynamically (e.g. via string concatenation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path cannot be constructed dynamically, such as via string concatenation.
```

> ### Error Handling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Error handling
```

Author: Done. Thanks!

Any errors will return NULL data when extracting to any datatype except
boolean and short, where these will return `false` and `0` respectively.

### Performance

Extracting fields from JSON documents provides flexibility, but comes at a
performance cost compared to storing fields directly in columns.

As a ballpark estimate, you should expect extracting a field from a JSON
document to be around one order of magnitude slower than extracting the same
data directly from a dedicated database column. As such, we suggest reserving
use of JSON for when the requirement of handling multiple data fields flexibly
outweighs the performance penalty.

### Migrating JSON fields to columns

> JSON offers an opportunity to capture a wide range of details early
> in the design process of a solution (while it is yet unclear which fields may
> be most valuable), to then modify the database schema later to extract more
> frequently accessed fields as first-class columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON offers an opportunity to capture a wide range of details early
in a solution's design process. During early stages, it may not be clear which fields will provide the most value. Once known, you can then modify the database schema to extract these fields into first-class columns.
```

Author: Done. Thanks!

-- Extracts the number as a long, returning NULL if the field is not a number
-- or out of range. Floating point numbers are truncated.
json_extract('{"qty": 10000}', '$.qty')::long        -- 10000
json_extract('1.75', '$')::long                      -- 1

-- Extracts the number as a double, returning NULL if the field is not a number
-- or out of range.
json_extract('{"price": 100.25}', '$.price')::double -- 100.25
json_extract('10000', '$')::double                   -- 10000.0
json_extract('{"price": null}', '$.price')::double   -- NULL

-- JSON `true` is extracted as the boolean `true`. Everything else is `false`.
json_extract('[true]', '$[0]')::boolean              -- true
json_extract('["true"]', '$[0]')::boolean            -- false

-- SHORT numbers can't represent NULL values, so return 0 instead.
json_extract('{"qty": 10000}', '$.qty')::short       -- 10000
json_extract('{"qty": null}', '$.qty')::short        -- 0
json_extract('{"qty": 1000000}', '$.qty')::short     -- 0  (out of range)
```

Calling `json_extract` without immediately casting to a datatype will always
return a `VARCHAR`.

```questdb-sql title="Extracting a path as VARCHAR"

> json_extract('{"name": "Lisa"}', '$.name') name      -- Lisa

Author: Remove the redundant ` name` bit.

Author: Done.
